I'm gonna use this as
an excuse to kind of like,
think about the architecture
here a little bit.
And what the first thing I want to do is
separate this component from the state
management library a little bit so that I
can swap out any different provider and
it'll just work with it and
life will be great.
And we could take this really far if
we wanted to, we probably won't but
there are a bunch of things you can do.
And some of these are just kind
of useful patterns, right?
I'll revisit this at the end.
But if you think about Redux,
kind of like prior to Hooks,
you had those higher order
components where you would
have just a view layer only
version of the component.
And then you would have the container
component that would wrap it and
pass in all the Redux stuff as a prop.
We stopped doing that when Hooks became
a thing, but it's actually a pretty
good pattern that will make you
happier and less sad over time.
You can still do it with Hooks,
we just don't because we're very lazy.
We don't like typing, despite the fact
that is what we do for a living.
So we can do some version of that here and
it will both get me to a place
where my test will pass and
then also leave me better off for
using this component later on.
And that seems like a double win.
So the biggest problem we're
gonna have here is in this
little sample app is
naming things is hard.
And everything it's always hard.
But in this case, what we wanna
do is have the ability to have
this component with wrapped and
unwrapped from a provider.
Now the nature of this component makes
it so that I'm not gonna win super
well here because cool, I can pull
this out and I will pull this out.
I will have a problem in
about 20 seconds after that,
which is if I go into the item list
itself, or the item itself rather.
Yeah, I don't know if I was
going the right direction.
And I go into the item it's using
a useDispatch which
assumes that we are and
useItem is using use selector, right?
And so you cannot have this
component because Hooks are a thing.
You cannot have this component
totally separated out from any kind of
provider whatsoever, but you still wanted
this idea that you could snap it into
totally different systems, right?
And this comes from the fact
that we chose to use Hooks.
If we didn't choose to use Hooks,
we probably wouldn't be here.
And if we did it in unit test,
we wouldn't even notice the issue.
But here we are with an architecture
that we need to solve for.
So what I need to do is I need
to wrap it in some provider, but
like it would be nice if it weren't
totally coupled all the time
some closures that I don't have anything.
Because this is like,
even if you mounted a different one,
it would still be hooking
into the same state.
There's a bunch of grossness here.
Luckily, we can start to
unwind this a little bit.
So let's assume that we'll have,
since this is the entire application,
I'll just call it application it's fine.
I don't love the name,
but I don't have better.
I can call it packing-list-container 2,
I don't know.
The naming is not the important part.
And so let's return in this point,
we'll grab,
just really the provider of this point.
This will be the one wrapped
in the state management.
I'm not gonna look at my test while I'm
doing this because stuff is gonna break.
So now I've got just
a pure React component.
And if I really wanted to I could use
children here to take these lists out,
which would then make us I
could render this component now
that it wouldn't show me any items.
And I have to do a bunch
of other weird stuff.
But I could begin to further break apart
this component and make it a little bit
more modular with children,
a bunch of other things like that.
But I've started by at least,
separating out the part wrapped in
the provider from the part that's not.
So then I could say like, application
will be the thing with default.
And then we'll also export the Packing
List because this is why I said before,
having a version wrapped in all the state
management is great for when you use it.
And then if you ever just wanted the raw
pieces of UI and be able to pass props in,
you would also have a version
that you could export as well as
both the default and the named export.
I'm using export default because it's
very common with React applications.
I tend to in my own apps just never use
export default and have named exports for
everything, cool.
So we've got that in place and
I haven't solved the issue yet
because we're still putting
in the default one.
And if I just try to grab the PackingList,
we'll get a new error.
Let's go view the new error
because I think it's worthwhile.
So let's go and
we'll adjust our test a little bit.
At this point, we're going to
get the uniquely exported one,
which blows up lots of my tests all of
them for those keeping track at home,
which is like, hey, you tried to use this
batch but you don't have a provider.
That is true.
I do not have a provider.
So we've got that,
could we export the provider?
We could, but you know what,
I'm gonna recreate at that point,
my original problem, right?
Cuz then I will still have one
with the store enclosure state.
And I will just be back where I started
with a slightly more modular component
like better than when I started but
with the same issue.
So let's not deal with that just yet.
So one of the cool things about React
testing library is that you can,
I could do something
where I can even wrap it,
like I can pull out a provider,
I can wrap each one.
Now again, like the store is my issue,
not the provider.
So I need to deal with that somehow.
And this just comes down to regular
old JavaScript, in this case,
where it would be nice to be
able to create a store and
give myself the ability
to do that on the fly.
So let's go in here and let's say,
in our store we are just making one and
exporting it.
There's one store to rule them all,
use it,
it's in closure state
you don't have a choice.
What would be better?
And could I grab configure store?
I totally could.
But then I'd have to grab the reducer,
and I'd have to whip this together for
every test and throughout my application.
What I could do on the other
hand is I could say.
CreateStore, create application store,
whatever makes you the happiest and
this is a function now that we export and,
Now I have the ability to get a fresh
store and I have one that is available for
use through my app, right?
I have not lost anything.
I have only gained, and I gained a lot for
what is formatted to be
four lines of code, right,
and node a ton of characters.
So we have that in this case,
and that's super helpful.
So now what we could do is we
can pull that into our test.
I feel like naming stuff was really hard.
And then Intellisense made it harder
because I don't want to use like really
common reasonable names anymore
because autocomplete is really nice.
So we could go ahead and
let's say for instance,
we just we're gonna use this test right
now as an only test because if it passes
we know at least we have a path for it.
I don't need to watch all seven fail
all the time, or for different reasons.
Cool, it fails for the same reason it
failed before, there's not a provider.
So we could say, Provider and
that is gonna come from
React Redux in this case.
Provider, and then for the store,
All right, now, we've got a passes.
We've got a fresh store.
I'm very lazy.
I don't wanna do this seven times,
because I didn't even write all the tests.
There's also so I can edit one
I can do all sorts of stuff.
I'm very lazy.
I don't wanna wrap everyone
in a provider just yet.
What I would probably do in this case is,
I could do something like,
Yeah, let's do this move, right,
and I can create my own render.
Let's do something else first.
One thing that testing library gets
super nice is I can paste this option,
a set of options to it afterwards,
where I do, I give it a wrapper.
And this is great for
error boundaries and stuff like that.
I can give it a wrapper now.
Every component that goes to that render
will get wrapped in that other component.
Now I want to do that in mass so
I'm gonna create myself a little helper
function like we saw earlier that's
just going to say like, hey,
we'll have a version of render that we'll
call it renderWithProvider for now.
And that will effectively be very
similar to what we saw before.
Let's just start very easily
we'll just React element.
This is like, remember when we did that
render that also brought in the user?
We're basically doing that again.
We'll make this better in a moment.
And so we've got that in place.
And this one will hypothetically,
Return render, and let's just grab this.
Right, ro now we've got that or
return all the same.
It's basically API compliant
already if you look at this.
>> How is this different than before each?
>> I could do it before,
but then I have it,
like that is literally
rendering before each.
I won't pass any other options.
Like, if this took props, and
I want this one to now take props,
now I'm doing the same one
before each no matter what.
I don't have any real
way to pass props in.
In this case like it would work,
right, but it doesn't work writ large.
And so really all I could do is
like as you saw me right before,
and then swap this one here,
>> What
is the little dash before render do again?
>> Just gives it a different name so
I can call this render, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Just to give it a different name so
I can call this one render and
now if I look that one renders let's see
This should just work at this point.
Let's see what we got.
I had a real issue and I had a dumb issue.
Let's deal with the dumb issue first and
get it out of the way and
then we'll finish up with the real issue.
The real issue was actually should
be solved at this point, but
the dumb issue got in the way.
I made a big deal before about
you can put emojis in a name and
the role will strip out the emojis.
That is still true.
Not true for labels, right,
which are just actually matching the test.
So I have two options here.
And honestly, they both go into,
what you should probably have in your
test is a little more flexibility.
When your test break you
want them to break for
a really good reason not because
someone put in an emoji in the UI.
Because next time the designer goes on
PTO I'm gonna put some emoji in the UI and
the test shouldn't break or
maybe they should, right,
depends on like the spiritual
version of that.
So I can either use a regex or
I could use the fact that
emojis are stripped out and
still be case sensitive.
At this point, it's working with
the case insensitive regex,
I think that's totally fine.
But yeah, it also shows that you want
your test to break cuz your functionality
doesn't work, not because of a tiny
implementation detail like an emoji.
This is what we are whipping
up a brand new store.
I did change it a little bit
as I was playing around and
separating stuff out slightly,
which is I make the store as a variable.
I have this ability to
wrap it in a provider.
Right, which is just
the child at this point.
The really cool thing you saw me typing
earlier is that React testing library
will, if you're using the same wrapper all
the time, and you don't wanna, let's say,
this is one provider.
Let's say I had that thing where you
start out with one context provider,
especially if you're using
the context API, and
the next thing you know
you have seven of them.
Could you have put them in over,
and over, and over again, sure.
One of the things I would probably put
in the utilities is either a wrapper, or
something called all the providers, right?
And then this wrapper option will
then take your component and
wrap it in that entire hierarchy so
you don't ever really have to see that.
But the kind of core piece to kind of
summarize is My tests were failing
because of a problem with my architecture.
My problem with my architecture
was that my state management and
my UI were tightly bound to each other.
And made it difficult to
actually use this component,
and that manifested itself in the tests.
Like I said, this is a small example.
Stuff like this has
manifested itself in reality.
But at that point is so like ingrained and
because I don't have the test sometimes
to catch these things early it's
very very hard to refactor.
And that just becomes like
I guess this is us now.
I guess this is how we live.
And separating out the other thing and
I'm not gonna do this all the way.
Because we're already in
the weeds a little bit and
I don't want to be too React specific at
this moment that I would think about doing
just kind of like some food for
thought for later, is like I said,
it still has to be wrapped in some kind
of provider because you can't take props.
So things that I might choose
to do later on kind of is my
thinking around this which is cool,
would I make these children, I might.
A lot of times what I will do is like
dependency injection is super powerful
which is, if you look at the individual
item for instance, right?
Or even the item list, this like
use item IDs is a use selector and
it needs to be in a provider or
else it will blow up.
The trick in this case is like,
what if the ability to fetch stuff from
the state was something I passed in,
right?
If somebody passed in, now, this component
can exist outside of a React component
hierarchy without a provider.
I can pass it in it will use that hook.
And then I can also pass in
other stuff when I need it.
And the idea is like you're just
trying to take your code base, and
this is true in a large application.
You're trying to take all the ways
that it's like jammed together and
start to pull it so you can pass stuff
in and you can kind of pull it apart and
snap it together rather than the fact
that pieces are glued to each other.
And just to be totally honest with y'all,
preparing for this,
I'm like, I should grab some of these
different functions from my codebase and
pull them out of the large codebase and
drop them into examples.
And I realized that I had some work
to do on my own codebase, right?
There were things where I couldn't just
lift this data transformation function.
Because it had a bunch of imports that
were then kind of like tied to other files
and next thing you know, it's like you go
to grab what you think is one piece and
stuck to it or like 14 other files, right?
And that is a sign that maybe
things are problematic, right?
I think the thing that I learned kind of
getting ready for this was that a great
great litmus test for you might think
that your code is modular and like, yeah,
there's the thing that takes it from
the API to how I want to use in the UI.
It's like it just takes these
two things but now over time,
some of these were not my fault,
some of them were.
Or someone just imported some other file,
right?
Well, that's now in the closure scope,
So you gotta bring that file too.
And then that file imports another file.
You got three files.
And that one imports two more.
You know what I mean?
And you get this network effect
where it becomes very difficult.
And it is sometimes take what you
think the most modular part of your
code base is, and try to pull it out and
drop it into another folder.
And see how much stuff breaks, right?
Is a great way to see, did you do
this as well as you think you did?
But these are the little things
you can find from the testing, and
they also point out some of those patterns
and ways to structure your code, so
you can pull stuff and move it.
It becomes easier to refactor.
You wanna move into
a totally another directory?
Cool, it just works.
Move it out of the project.
Great, you want to pull it
into its own library, awesome.
But also, it also makes your
code more testable, right?
We didn't do that in service to
the test we did in service of having
a more maintainable code base that was
highlighted by one of our tests, and
we fixed our tests along the way, awesome.